---
title: "Grace period converted revenue"
description: "Track the total revenue for grace period conversions."
metadataTitle: "Track grace period conversion revenue | Adapty Docs"
---

import Zoom from 'react-medium-image-zoom';
import 'react-medium-image-zoom/dist/styles.css';

The **Grace period converted revenue** chart displays the revenue generated from [grace period conversions](grace-period-converted): subscriptions that entered the [grace period](grace-period) state, and were successfully renewed before the period elapsed.

### Calculation

The Grace period converted revenue chart displays the daily revenue generated by subscription renewals of users in a grace period.

The Grace period begins when the subscription enters the billing issue state due to a payment failure and ends after a specified amount of time (6 days for weekly subscriptions, 16 days for all other subscriptions) or when payment is successfully received. The chart provides insights into the effectiveness of the grace period feature and can help identify potential issues with payment processing or subscription management.

### Available filters

- ✅ Filter by: Attribution, audience, refund reason, country, offer type, offer ID, offer discount type, A/B test, paywall, store, placement, period, segment, product, and duration.

You can find more information about the available controls, filters, grouping options, and how to use them in the[ this documentation.](controls-filters-grouping-compare-proceeds)

### Grace period converted revenue chart usage

Use this chart to measure the financial impact of the grace period feature by tracking revenue recovered from subscriptions with payment issues. This helps you quantify the effectiveness of your grace period strategy and assess the return on investment of implementing grace period-related features or communications.

### Similar metrics

- [Billing issue](billing-issue)
- [Billing issue converted](billing-issue-converted)
- [Billing issue converted revenue](billing-issue-converted-revenue)
- [Grace period](grace-period.md)
- [Grace period converted](grace-period-converted)
- [Refund money](refund-money.md)
- [Refund events](refund-events.md)