---
title: "How Adapty analytics works"
description: "Learn how Adapty analytics work to track subscription performance efficiently."
metadataTitle: "How Adapty Analytics Works | Adapty Docs"
---

import Zoom from 'react-medium-image-zoom';
import 'react-medium-image-zoom/dist/styles.css';

Adapty Analytics offers a powerful suite of tools that provide valuable insights into your user base, allowing you to make data-driven decisions and optimize your app's performance. With Adapty, you can go beyond basic metrics and dive deep into advanced analytics such as funnels, cohorts, retention, lifetime value (LTV) charts, and more. Let's explore the general approach to data gathering, calculation, and the various analytics features available.

To learn more about specific metrics and advanced analytics features, please refer to the relevant sections in the documentation menu.

To get started with Adapty analytics, simply [install](installation-of-adapty-sdks) the Adapty SDK for your iOS or Android apps. From there, you can analyze close to real-time metrics with [advanced controls](controls-filters-grouping-compare-proceeds), such as filters and grouping, including country, paywall, product, and more. By utilizing this powerful tool, you can gain a deeper understanding of your user base and make data-driven decisions to optimize your app's performance.

### Close to real-time data for advanced analysis

When it comes to analytics, the Apple App Store and Google Play Store offer some basic metrics such as downloads, revenue, and retention rates. More than that, the data is usually updated only once a day, which can limit your ability to make real-time decisions.

In contrast, Adapty offers close to real-time analytics that allows you to track key metrics as they happen, giving you an accurate and up-to-date view of your app's performance. Data coming to Adapty gets processed and ends up in analytics 15 to 30 minutes after the event has been received. This extra-processing step is necessary to make sure our analytics is fast and reliable.

With Adapty, you can access advanced metrics and filters that provide deeper insights into user behavior, such as ad network, ad campaign, country, paywall, product, and more. The analytics data is generated using the current state of purchase receipts stored in Adapty, so they always reflect up-to-date information without relying on any client-side event logging. This means you can access real-time metrics without any delay, ensuring that you always have the latest information on hand.

Additionally, Adapty allows you to attribute analytics data to specific customers, including data from [Apple Search Ads](apple-search-ads) and mobile measurement partners (Appsflyer, Adjust, Branch, etc). This gives you a complete understanding of your users and enables you to personalize your app's marketing and engagement strategies.

### Data attribution

One of the advantages of Adapty analytics is that all data is attributed to every device, which allows for more precise segmentation based on device type, location, and other factors. This provides deeper insights into user behavior and enables you to tailor your marketing and engagement strategies to specific audiences.

Additionally, Adapty offers robust CRM functionality that allows you to track and analyze user behavior across multiple touchpoints, including in-app purchases, and subscriptions. This provides a complete view of the customer journey and helps you identify opportunities to optimize user acquisition, retention, and monetization. Learn more about the [CRM](profiles-crm?_ga=2.76111573.1535148052.1683526474-1601936383.1676319293) in the Adapty system.

### Data from both stores

In addition to providing a unified view of data from both the  App Store and  Play Store, Adapty analytics also enables you to group and filter data by store. This allows you to compare and contrast metrics between the two stores and gain deeper insights into user behavior and preferences.

For example, you can analyze how different user segments behave in each store, such as comparing retention rates for iOS with Android users or analyzing revenue generated by users in different countries in each store. You can also filter by different app versions, pricing tiers, and more, to gain granular insights into user behavior and make informed decisions.

### Adapty events and integrations

In addition to providing store-specific metrics, Adapty also offers a powerful set of subscription events that can be used to gain deeper insights into user behavior. With 17 subscription events that can be sent to 3rd party analytics and webhook, you can gain granular insights into user behavior and optimize your subscription strategies for maximum impact. Check our [documentation](events) to learn more about Adapty events and 3rd party integrations.

### Historical data import

Another advantage of Adapty's analytics platform is the ability to [import historical data](importing-historical-data-to-adapty), giving you a more comprehensive view of your app's performance over time. This feature allows you to see transaction data from before you started using Adapty and organize it into cohorts for more granular analysis.

Adapty's analytics platform also offers advanced analytics and integrations with a range of third-party tools, allowing you to gain deeper insights into user behavior and optimize your subscription offerings accordingly. With Adapty, you can easily track key metrics such as conversion rates, churn, and lifetime value, as well as gain insights into user segments and cohorts.

### Commission fee and taxes calculation

Adapty Analytics provides accurate calculation of commission fees and taxes associated with transactions.

**Commission fee calculation:** Adapty supports commission calculation for both the App Store and Play Store. The calculation is based on the Gross revenue, representing the total revenue generated by transactions before any deductions. For detailed information on how Adapty calculates store commission fees, please refer to the corresponding documentation for [App Store](app-store-small-business-program) and [Play Store.](google-reduced-service-fee)

**Tax calculation**: Adapty supports tax calculation for both the App Store and Play Store transactions. We incorporate tax calculation into its revenue analytics. The platform considers the user's store account country VAT tax rate for the transaction to accurately calculate the taxes associated with each transaction.  The taxes are deducted from the revenue after the commission fee is applied.

### Predictions

Adapty's analytics platform offers predictive capabilities specifically for cohort analyses, focusing on Lifetime Value (LTV) and revenue predictions. By leveraging historical data and advanced machine learning algorithms, Adapty can generate predictions for these key metrics, providing valuable insights for planning and optimizing your app's growth strategies.  To learn more about utilizing predictions for cohort analyses and understanding how to interpret and apply the forecasted insights, refer to the detailed documentation on [Predictions in cohorts](predicted-ltv-and-revenue).

By leveraging Adapty's advanced analytics capabilities, you can make data-driven decisions and optimize your app's performance for success.